TWC2021 Wiki and News article (#4909)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/TWC/2021/en.md

| Commentator | *-- To be announced --* |
| Referee | ![][flag_ES] [Deif](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/318565), ![][flag_AU] [ill onion](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8306102), ![][flag_BR] [LeoFLT](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3668779), ![][flag_NL] [nik](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10077264), ![][flag_DE] [p3n](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/123703), ![][flag_US] [tigereyes144](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6499811), ![][flag_CL] [WalterToro](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5281416), ![][flag_GB] [Yazzehh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7068973) |
| Statistician | ![][flag_BR] [LeoFLT](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3668779), ![][flag_DE] [Nwolf](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1910766) |

## Links

- [Discussion thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1241159)
- [Livestream](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive)
- **[Registration Page](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/tournaments/27)**

## Ruleset

### Tournament rules

1. The osu!taiko World Cup is a country-based team tournament, played on the osu!taiko game mode.

>    - **While this competition is planned as a 2 versus 2 setup, this might change depending on the amount of incoming registrations.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **While this competition is planned as a 2 versus 2 setup, this might change depending on the number of incoming registrations.**
```

2. Beatmap scoring is based on Score V2.

> 3. The maps for each round will be announced by the mapset selector on the Sunday before the actual matches take place. Only these will be used during the respective matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The maps for each round will be announced by the mapset selectors on Sunday before the actual matches take place. Only these will be used during the respective matches.
```

   - One map will be given as a tiebreaker map. This map will only be played in case of a tie.
   - There will also be a [Hidden](/wiki/Game_modifier/Hidden), [HardRock](/wiki/Game_modifier/Hard_Rock), [DoubleTime](/wiki/Game_modifier/Double_Time) and FreeMod bracket.

> 4. Match schedule will be settled by the Tournament Management (see above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The match schedule will be settled by the Tournament Management (see above).
```

5. If no staff or referee is available, the match will be postponed.
6. Failed players' scores do not get added to the team score.
7. Use of the Visual Settings to alter background dim or disable map elements like storyboards and skins are allowed.
8. If the beatmap ends in a draw, the game will be nullified.

>    - If a game is nullified the beatmap will be replayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If a game is nullified, the beatmap will be replayed.
```

9. If a player disconnects, they get treated as if they failed the map.

>    - Disconnects within the first 30 seconds of a beatmap can be rematched at the referee's discretion. The played beatmap might be aborted for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Disconnects within the first 30 seconds of a beatmap can be rematched at the referee's discretion. The beatmap being played might be aborted for this.
```

   - **If a rematch happens, the roster for each team during that particular beatmap must remain the same. If that is not possible (the player who got disconnected can't get back in time) then both teams are allowed to swap rosters.**
10. Beatmaps cannot be reused in the same match unless the game was nullified.
11. If less than the minimum required players attend, the maximum time the match can be postponed is 10 minutes.
    - If a team having the minimum required players online only presents 2 players in the lobby after the scheduled start time, they will forfeit their warmup.
12. Exchanging players during a match is allowed without limitations.
13. Lag is not a valid reason to nullify a beatmap.

> 14. All players are supposed to keep the match running fluent and without delays. Excessive match delays coming from the player's side can be issued with penalties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. All players are supposed to keep the match running fluently and without delays. Excessive match delays coming from the player's side can be issued with penalties.
```

15. If a player disconnects between the beatmaps and the team can not provide an exchange, the match can be delayed 10 minutes at maximum.

> 16. All players and referees must be treated with respect. Instructions of the referees and tournament management is to be followed. Decisions labeled as final are not to be objected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. All players and referees must be treated with respect. Instructions of the referees and tournament management are to be followed. Decisions labelled as final are not to be objected.
```

17. Disrupting the match by foul play, picking inappropriate warmup maps (see below), insulting and provoking other players or referees, delaying the match or other deliberate inappropriate misbehavior is strictly prohibited.
18. The multiplayer chatrooms underlie the [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules). All chat rules apply to the multiplayer chatrooms, too.

>     - Breaking the chat rules results in a silence. Silenced players can not participate at multiplayer matches and must be exchanged for the time being.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Breaking the chat rules results in a silence. Silenced players can not participate in multiplayer matches and must be exchanged for the time being.
```

> 19. In Group stage, 'Win by default' will be considered as win by 4:0, +1.0 score difference ratio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
19. In the Group stage, 'Win by default' will be considered as win by 4:0, +1.0 score difference ratio.
```

4. Only the 32 potentially strongest countries will participate. The potential strength of a country is determined by the online statistics of all valid candidates.
   - If the amount of registered countries is below 32, the number might be reduced to 24, 20 or 16. The aim is always to let as many countries participate as possible!
5. Mapset selectors may not participate as players in this tournament.

### Stage instructions

1. In the first stage (Group Stage), the teams will be divided into 8 groups of 4 teams.

2. All the teams from each group will face each other.

3. Rankings of each group are determined by sorting the results of each team's performance in the following priority:
   - Most matches won.
   - Have higher `{(the number of beatmaps won) - (the number of beatmaps defeated)}`.
   - Most beatmaps won.
   - **Winner of the match played previously between the tied teams.**
   - In the event of a triple tie:
     - Have higher `∑{(total score difference) / (maximum score)}`.
     - Winner of the rematch.

4. The top 2 teams of each group will move on to the Knock-Out Stages.
   - This may change with the actual Group Stage setup.

> 5. Following stages are double elimination stages. This means that the winner moves to the next stage and the losing team gets moved to the Loser bracket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The following stages are double elimination stages. This means that the winner moves to the next stage and the losing team gets moved to the Loser bracket.
```

### Mappool instructions

1. There will be 1 mappool for the Group Stage, 1 mappool for the Round of 16, 1 mappool for the Quarterfinals, 1 mappool for the Semifinals, 1 mappool for the Finals and 1 mappool for the Grand Finals.
2. Each mappool consists of 5 brackets: NoMod, [Hidden](/wiki/Game_modifier/Hidden), [HardRock](/wiki/Game_modifier/Hard_Rock), [DoubleTime](/wiki/Game_modifier/Double_Time) and FreeMod.
3. The Group Stage mappool will consist of 14 maps, Round of 16 and Quarterfinals will consist of 15 maps, Semifinals, Finals and Grand Finals mappool will consist of 16 maps.
4. Each mappool has one tiebreaker.
5. The NoMod bracket will be played with no mods activated.
6. The Hidden, HardRock and DoubleTime bracket will be played with the respective mods activated.
7. The FreeMod bracket will have FreeMod activated. Every individual player can pick Hidden, HardRock or both.
   - When playing a FreeMod map, at least 1 player of each team must have at least one mod activated.
   - Players **must** select different mod combinations. Both players using only Hidden, only HardRock or Hidden+HardRock is disallowed.
8. The tiebreaker will be played under FreeMod conditions.

>    - When playing the tiebreaker, no one needs to have a mod activated and players can select same mod combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - While playing the tiebreaker, players do not need to have a mod activated and are allowed to select the same mod combinations.
```

11. The size of the FreeMod brackets will be 3 in all stages.

### Scheduling instructions

1. Each stage will be held on **a single weekend**.
2. Matches in Group Stage may overlap.
3. All double elimination stages will be held on either Saturday or Sunday, UTC+0.
4. Scheduling will be handled by the Tournament Management. Schedules will be released on the Sunday before the first matches of the actual stage. Tournament Management will try to create the schedule to respect the participant's time zone.
   - In the stages Quarterfinals and higher: Please inform tournament management before Sunday, if you expect a specific time slot to be unavailable in the following week. Wishes are tried to be followed, alas no promises can be made.
5. **Reschedules will only be considered if both teams agree to a time, this needs to be done and notified to the tournament staff before Wednesday at 23:59 UTC+0 in that particular week when your match takes place.**
6. **Reschedules may only be requested by a team captain.**
   - **Do not ask for a reschedule unless it is absolutely needed. The tournament staff still has the right to decline the request.**

> 7. Captains are responsible for their teams availability. The greater team size exists to ensure every team can provide at least two players for each match. If teams can not provide two players for a match, the match will be considered forfeited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Captains are responsible for their team's availability. The greater team size exists to ensure every team can provide at least two players for each match. If teams can not provide two players for a match, the match will be considered forfeited.
```
